>> Will Sentance: That was our amazing
prototypal nature of jobs are those purple
lines, the prototypal
nature of JavaScript.
That's a very beautiful way
of ensuring that we don't
have to have increment directly on
user 1 and user 2 and user 500.
But we have access to it because when
we don't find increment on the mat
on the object itself
JavaScript doesn't panic.
It looks it is proto property in 1, heads
up to where it links to user function
store and finds a single saved version
of that function, grabs it, and uses it.
We love it.
But as I say, it does involve quite
a little bit of writing of code.
So if we look back, we had creating
the object manually using object.create,
storing in a new user.
By the way, just a temporary name for
it,they never get stuck with that name.
Returning out that object manually,
we wrote the code for that as well.
Creating a bond to use a function store.
Wouldn't it be nice if we
could automate that stuff?
And you know what?
There's gonna be a key word,
I'm gonna use blue for it, but
I'm gonna insert in front of running my
function, what is that keyword everybody?
Cuz I've written up already I
shouldn't have, what is it?
>> Braden: New.
>> Will Sentance: New,
well done everybody.
Sorry, new [SOUND], and
why if we say it's a new,
interesting, I'm going
to say that word and
people it's going to automate so
much stuff for us.
It's going to create automatically
inside of here an object.
So everything in blue is going to be
the stuff that's going to be done for
us by the new keyword.
So we don't have to do it,
we don't have to write that code anymore.
It's gonna create a new object for
us automatically.
It's gonna return that object out for
Yeah,
>> Will Sentance: It's also, believe it or
not, it's gonna make the link to some
object full of functions out here,
automatically for us, as well.
Gonna set the proto property
automatically for us as well.
I will say this, to where we might think?
Because, hold on, before we manually set
that object that we sought a new user to
have it hidden proto property linked to
use a function store was already there.
But now I thought would be the case.
So I don't know where we're going to
put our shared store functions if not
in user function store, we're not
going to control any more ourselves.
Another thing by the way is, how did I
get to put properties on this object?
What label did I have mapped in order
to be able to access this object and
stick properties on it.
What label did I give it?
>> Braden: New user.
>> Will Sentance: If that object is
being automatically created for us,
do I get to assign it a label?
No.
So we got a couple of questions,
where we gonna link off to?
And what's this object gonna
automatically given as a label?
I hope it's not the same
label as we have for
something else in other function calls,
that'd be a bit silly, wouldn't it?
Yeah, we wouldn't wanna, we wouldn't
want to have it be say for example,
this that in another place refers
to something totally different.
That would be very crazy.
All right, okay, people, so
new keyword automates the hard work.
When we call the function
that returns an object,
with the new keyword in
front we automate 2 things.
Well, firstly,
we create the object automatically.
Then, so we see I've put
the new in front of it now.
Then we return the object automatically.
In the meantime,
we make sure we stick stuff in it.
But we now need to adjust how we write
the body of this function, userCreator,
the code of it.
How can we refer to this
auto-created object and
know where to put our single versions,
one of versions of the shared functions?
Because I didn't get to
choose to put it in something
called user function store anymore.
The first bit we can answer right now,
have a guess.
What do you think they call this object
that automatically created anyone take
a guess, Peter?
>> Braden: Yes
>> Will Sentance: Yes,
this exactly is going to be called this.
Given that this refers to
its only given object or
a different stage of that object.
Then when we later on run increment on
the object and in its execution corner,
is that this refers to whatever
the object is to the left of the dot,
they're totally separate.
That's a little bit confusing
when we read our code, well,
not just a little bit,
it's profoundly confusing.
This is the other key
rule of how this works.
It's always whatever the object is to
the left of the dot when we run a method,
that this is implicitly
assigned to the user 1.
It has one other role, if we use a new
keyword, the automatically created object
inside of that execution context is gonna
label this, but they're totally separate.
Okay, where are we gonna put out single
saved version of the function we want,
all objects that come from executing?
These are totally different executions
of user creator, where do we want all
those shared functions that these
objects have a link to to be stored?
To understand that, we need to add
one more preeminent interlude,
let's have a look.
Preeminent interlude, before we do that,
the new keyword automates
a lot of our manual work.
You see we get rid of the creation of
the object is going to be done for
us with the new key.
When we run user created
new is gonna insert and
it's going to automatically
stick that line up there,
creating a new object is going to
try to do this not to new user.
We're then gonna have access
to that object using this.
We're not gonna do newUser.name anymore.
We're gonna do this name
to fix stuff in it.
And it's gonna automatically return
that this object out into user 1.
But our function store, our connection to
function store that's done and gone now.
So where are we going to?
We need a big old object that we
can be sure that with their help,
with a new keyword, the object
that gets automatically created,
its proto property will
link off to some object.
I need to know where that's gonna be.
To find out where it's gonna be, let's
take a look at this little interlude.
Functions are both objects and
functions in JavaScript.
We need it over here, people.
A little bit of a bonus interlude here,
really important for us to understand.
So we have, memory, you know it's just a,
let's do a,
>> Will Sentance: Bit of work.
Yeah, look at that was based on
advice from one of our audience.
So line 1 here, Dan,
what are we doing in memory?
>> Dan: We are storing
the function multiplyBy2.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, store
the function multiplyBy2, there it is.
Okay, line 2 Jeff,
what are we doing in that line?
>> Jeff: We are creating
a property store on multiplyBy2,
>> Will Sentance: But it's a function,
unless Jeff?
>> Jeff: It's an object.
>> Will Sentance: A function
plus an object.
It turns out as soon as that
JavaScript sees that keyword function,
knows a function is coming,
we get a function plus,
>> Will Sentance: A big
old object attached.
If we use parens on the end of
the function, well, we’ll see in a second.
If we use dot on the end of
the function label, the label for
the function,
which bit do we get access to Jeff?
>> Jeff: What’s that?
>> Will Sentance: If we use dot on
the end of the multiplyBy2 label,
which bit of the function object combo.
I call them, which bit do we have?
We get access to the object bit, exactly
right through the dot, into it we go.
And what are we gonna store in it, Braden?
>> Braden: 5.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
on what property name?
>> Braden: Stored.
>> Will Sentance: Stored,
look at that, fantastic.
But maybe, look at that next line,
maybe when we then run
multiplyBy2 with the input of 3.
Maybe that doesn't work anymore because
maybe doing this overwrote the function
code, did it Braden?
No, what allows us now to
still use the function bit,
what symbols we're using here?
>> Braden: The parens.
>> Will Sentance: Parens, and
that means go use the function bit,
it's gonna return out 6.
But maybe that using the function
is overwritten the object, maybe.
Braden do we still get access to our
object if we use a dot notation?
>> Braden: Yes.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, we do.
Function object and
we're talking about an object as much, but
it is in every function is there.
But it's gonna turn out here to be super,
super, super useful.
But if you want to believe
will all functions also have,
very nice spot what all
functions also have by default.
>> Braden: Prototype?
>> Will Sentance: A,
I don't wanna say that.
A property, no well, yeah, that's what,
but a, no, well, yes they do, gosh, yeah.
We're gonna see that,
though you'll see that in OOP Hard Parts.
Specialize in OOP Hard Parts, but more important
to us right now, they have a property.
Nothing magical,
when you see the doc prototype,
we think, maybe there's some kind
of magical bonus in all that.
It's a property of an object and
the name of the property is what Braden?
>> Braden: MultiplyBy2.
>> Will Sentance: Not quite, Peter,
the name of the property is?
>> Peter: Prototype.
>> Will Sentance: Prototype.
Exactly, that property
is just prototype and o.
Here is where it gets interesting.
It's always on that all functions in
their object format automatically have
a property on them.
I mean, why did the dot dot dot,
actually was that automatically there,
called prototype?
It is not a hidden property.
It's like a it's a property
on the object bit.
We just don't tend to look at this bit.
We'd need to console log multiple
by to press a little down.
I mean, I guess the objects kind of
hidden from us and it's on there.
What is it?
Dan, what is the prototype
property default to be?
>> Dan: Empty object.
>> Will Sentance: A big old empty object.
Look at that.
Meaning, the function that we're gonna
use new one when it gets executed and
it creates an object automatically that
desperately needs a place to link to,
an old big empty object, in which to store
our functions with us to store functions.
That function is not just a function,
it's also a what Jeff?
>> Jeff: An object.
>> Will Sentance: An object.
And that object is not empty,
it's got what in that?
>> Jeff: A prototype property.
>> Will Sentance: A prototype properly,
nicely put, which is what, Mark?
>> Matt: A big old empty object.
>> Will Sentance: Where do we think
folk that it might make sense for
us to have the new keyword or for
JavaScript to have decided the new
keywords auto created object inside
the running of the userCreate
a function for it to have its protocol
connection be to if it can't specify
that its user function store?
Matt, where do you think
it might make sense?
>> Matt: The prototype property.
>> Will Sentance: Prototype property of
the function that we're then going to run
the new keyword or we're going to run with
the new keyword on such that it creates
an automatic object inside.
And that's gonna have a bond for
its proto property to
that prototype property,
which is an object.
The protocol is going to not link
to use the function store, but
link up to this object.
So we better put our functions that
we want all objects that come out of
the auto, or come out to running user
created with the new keyword in front that
creates an object automatically, which
needs somewhere to have a link to for
its shared functions.
They're automatically gonna be that
function that creates the object with
the help of the new keyword
in its object version,
in the prototype property of it,
which is itself An object.